The President:
Hi, everybody.
The holiday season is a time for
remembering the bonds we share,
and our obligations to
one another as human beings.
But right now, more than one
million of our fellow Americans
are poised to lose
a vital economic lifeline
just a few days after Christmas
if Congress doesn't
do something about it.
Our top priority as a country
should be restoring opportunity
and broad-based economic
growth for all Americans.
And yesterday, we learned
that our businesses
created about 200,000 jobs
in the month of November.
That's more than 8 million
new jobs in the last 45 months.
And the unemployment rate
fell to its lowest level
in five years.
But we need to do everything
we can to help businesses
create more good jobs that
pay good wages even faster.
Because the hole that
we're still digging out of
means that there are still
millions of Americans
looking for work -
often because
they've been laid off
through no fault of their own.
We also have to look out for
the Americans working hard
to get those jobs.
That's why, as a country,
we offer temporary
unemployment insurance -
so that job-seekers
don't fall into poverty,
and so that when
they get that job,
they bounce back more quickly.
For many families,
it can be the difference
between hardship
and catastrophe.
It makes a difference for a
mother who suddenly doesn't know
if she'll be able to put food
on the table for her kids.
It makes a difference for
a father who lost his job
and is looking for a new one.
Last year alone,
it lifted 2.5 million
people out of poverty,
and cushioned the
blow for many more.
But here's the thing:
if Members of Congress don't act
before they leave
on their vacations,
1.3 million Americans
will lose this lifeline.
These are people we know.
They're our friends
and neighbors;
they sit next to us in church
and volunteer
in our communities;
their kids play with our kids.
And they include 20,000 veterans
who've served this
country with honor.
If Congress refuses to act,
it won't just hurt families
already struggling -
it will actually
harm our economy.
Unemployment insurance is one of
the most effective ways there is
to boost our economy.
When people have money to
spend on basic necessities,
that means more customers
for our businesses
and, ultimately, more jobs.
And the evidence shows
that unemployment insurance
doesn't stop people from
trying hard to find work.
Just this week, the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office
predicted that allowing
benefits to expire
will be a drag on our
economic growth next year.
A report by
the Department of Labor
and my Council
of Economic Advisors
estimated that it could
cost businesses 240,000 jobs.
And without the ability to feed
their families or pay the bills,
many people currently
looking for work
could stop looking for good.
So extending
unemployment insurance
isn't just the right thing
to do for our families -
it's the smart thing
to do for our economy.
And it shouldn't
be a partisan issue.
For decades, Congress has voted
to offer relief to job-seekers -
including when the unemployment
rate was lower than it is today.
But now that economic
lifeline is in jeopardy.
All because Republicans
in this Congress -
which is on track to be the
most unproductive in history -
have so far
refused to extend it.
So this holiday season,
let's give our fellow Americans
who are desperately looking
for work the help they need
to keep on looking.
Let's make it
easier for businesses
to attract more customers,
and our economy to grow.
And together, let's keep
doing everything we can
to make this country a place
where anyone who works hard
has a chance to get ahead.
Thanks everybody,
and have a great weekend.